NOTES

elton, b1pi, omega analysis
MacOS
new CR needed for offline computing

GlueX Offline Meeting, February 9, 2010

   1. Dependency generation in the make scheme: Mark has revised the scheme for making dependency files in the BMS system.
   2. Task priority ratings: Mark added priority ratings to the items on the Task List.

APS practice talk on GlueX Rates

David gave us a preview of his talk on rates at the upcoming Spring APS meeting (being held in February). His slide titles:

Eliott, DANA-EVIO conversion, almost complete

PID Scheme introduced, Simon

GlueX Offline Meeting, February 23, 2010

   2. Environment variable checking in the makefiles: Mark
   4. Auto-notification of build errors: Mark

    * Noise Hits in mcsmear: We decided to change the default behavior of mcsmear from noise-hits-generated mode to skip-noise-hit-generation mode.

    * GEANT4 for GlueX sentiment for re-raising this issue

GlueX Offline Meeting, March 9, 2010


Mark presented a proposal to make change in the top-level structure of our simulation and reconstruction code, in essence give it name ("sim-recon") less generic than the current one ("src").

ded, a new GlueX event display, Dave Heddle

Improvements in full event reconstruction calorimeter clusters and the resulting photon objects

GlueX Offline Meeting, March 23, 2010

    * BMS change: binaries depend on libraries: Mark mentioned the recent change made to the binary making makefile (Makefile.bin). Now binaries should automatically be remade when libraries, upon which they depend, have changed.

    * Partial wave analysis, initial contacts: Craig has been in contact with Matt and Curtis on this.

Versioning of Calibration Constants

Mark reviewed the interim scheme (link above)

FCAL clustering, See Mihajlo's slides

Material on Splitoffs from Curtis and Matt

Documentation Structure Mark outlined some ideas

GlueX Offline Meeting, April 6, 2010
From GlueXWiki
Jump to: navigation, search

GlueX Offline Meeting
Tuesday, April 6, 2010
2:00 pm EDT
JLab: CEBAF Center F326/7
Contents
[hide]

    * 1 Telephone
    * 2 Video Conferencing
    * 3 Slides
    * 4 Agenda
    * 5 Minutes
          o 5.1 Announcements
          o 5.2 Review of Minutes from the Last Meeting
          o 5.3 Filtering events from bggen
          o 5.4 BCAL Reconstruction
          o 5.5 DANA-to-EVIO conversion
          o 5.6 Action Item Review
          o 5.7 FCAL reconstruction update
          o 5.8 New Action Items

[edit]
Telephone

To connect by telephone:

   1. dial:
          * 800-377-8846 : US
          * 888-276-7715 : Canada
          * 302-709-8424 : International 
   2. enter participant code: 77438230# (remember the "#") 

[edit]
Video Conferencing

    * ESNet: 8542553
    * EVO:
          o Meeting URL: http://evo.caltech.edu/evoGate/koala.jnlp?meeting=eleBevvlvDatasaeIl
          o Phone Bridge ID: 56083 

[edit]
Slides

Talks can be deposited in the directory /group/halld/www/halldweb1/html/talks/2010-04 on the JLab CUE (you have to be a member of the "halld" Unix group). This directory is accessible from the web at https://halldweb1.jlab.org/talks/2010-04/ .
[edit]
Agenda

   1. Announcements
         1. New src release, sim-recon-2010-03-29: Mark
         2. "RedHat 5.3" link to "CentOS" for JLab builds: Mark
         3. New: HOWTO add private code to a DANA application: Mark 
   2. Review of minutes from the last meeting: all
   3. Filtering events from bggen: all
   4. BCAL Reconstruction: David
   5. DANA-to-EVIO conversion: Elliott
   6. FCAL: gamma vs pi+ reconstruction: Mihajlo
   7. Action Item Review: all 

[edit]
Minutes

    * IU: Mihajlo Kornicer, Ryan Mitchell, Matt Shepherd
    * JLab: Mark Ito (chair), David Lawrence, Lubomir Pentchev, Elton Smith, Sascha Somov, Simon Taylor, Elliott Wolin, Beni Zihlmann 

[edit]
Announcements

   1. New src release, sim-recon-2010-03-29: Mark mentioned that this was the first release using the new sim-recon structure and the first using JANA 0.6.1. No problems have been reported thus far.
   2. "RedHat 5.3" link to "CentOS" for JLab builds: Mark reported that this has been done for existing releases. It still needs to be automated.
   3. New HOWTO add private code to a DANA application: Mark and David wrote one. See the email announcement. During discussion we identified two new HOWTO's that we would like to see:
         1. HOWTO enable multiple threads: David will write this one.
         2. HOWTO write thread-safe code: Elliott suggested this; he will help David write one. 
   4. JANA 0.6.1 required for new code: David warned us that due to check-in's done this week, JANA 0.6.1 is required to build the latest version of sim-recon.
   5. Make system fixed to re-make on include file changes: In trying to fix another feature, Mark broke this basic function of the depends files. He has fixed it now. It had been broken for several months. 

[edit]
Review of Minutes from the Last Meeting

They were reviewed; no notable comments were offered.
[edit]
Filtering events from bggen

This was a recent thread on the offline mailing list. Will Levine was "looking for a way to filter out all events of a specific final state from bggen/pythia output." He got several responses from several collaborators describing various methods. David remarked, and we all agreed, that this was an example of successful communication within the group.
[edit]
BCAL Reconstruction

David gave us a succinct outline of the reconstruction algorithm we have been using for the BCAL including a historical time-line of its genesis at KLOE and GlueX-based development, along with relevant references. This paralleled the presentation by Mihajlo at the last meeting on FCAL reconstruction. See his slides for details.

Sascha raised the question of who is responsible for this code. Mark reported that this issue will be discussed at the next Calorimeter Meeting, on Thursday, April 15.
[edit]
DANA-to-EVIO conversion

Elliott presented his recent efforts, in collaboration with David, on a plug-in that serializes a selection of DANA objects in EVIO format. The selection only reflects current state of development; more classes can be added. The latest version allows output of DANA associated objects (more specifically, the associations themselves). See his slides for details.

In the discussion, Mark remarked at the recent development seems to be evolving toward an HDDM-like feature set and if so he wondered why not just use HDDM, to conserve manpower. Elliott stated that it makes sense in the context of the online to keep things in the realm of EVIO, and output of the level 3 farm, which would be generated from DANA objects, would therefore need to be expressed in EVIO.
[edit]
Action Item Review

We went over the list. Some items need to be marked as done. Some of us were reminded of things we have to do.

We had a short discussion of tracking action items in an issue-tracking software system rather than on a wiki page. The time has probably come to do this.
[edit]
FCAL reconstruction update

We did not have time to get to this item. Mihajlo will present this material at the next Physics Meeting.
[edit]
New Action Items

   1. Automate links from CentOS5 to RHEL5, 64-bit. -> Mark
   2. HOWTO enable multiple threads-> David
   3. HOWTO write thread-safe code-> Elliott, David
   4. Explore action item tracking software. -> Mark 

Retrieved from "http://www.jlab.org/Hall-D/software/wiki/index.php/GlueX_Offline_Meeting%2C_April_6%2C_2010"
Views

    * Article
    * Discussion
    * Edit
    * History

Personal tools

    * Log in / create account

Navigation

    * Main Page
    * Community portal
    * Current events
    * Recent changes
    * Random page
    * Help
    * Donations

Search
 
Toolbox

    * What links here
    * Related changes
    * Upload file
    * Special pages
    * Printable version
    * Permanent link
    * Cite this article

MediaWiki

    * This page was last modified 14:15, 7 April 2010.
    * This page has been accessed 833 times.
    * Privacy policy
    * About GlueXWiki
    * Disclaimers


GlueX Offline Meeting, April 20, 2010
From GlueXWiki
Jump to: navigation, search

GlueX Offline Meeting
Tuesday, April 20, 2010
2:00 pm EDT
JLab: CEBAF Center F326/7
Contents
[hide]

    * 1 Telephone
    * 2 Video Conferencing
    * 3 Slides
    * 4 Agenda
    * 5 Minutes
          o 5.1 Announcements
          o 5.2 Review of Minutes from the Last Meeting
          o 5.3 New Fine-Mesh B-field Option
          o 5.4 Action Item Review
          o 5.5 Construction and Wiring Database
          o 5.6 New Action Items

[edit]
Telephone

To connect by telephone:

   1. dial:
          * 800-377-8846 : US
          * 888-276-7715 : Canada
          * 302-709-8424 : International 
   2. enter participant code: 77438230# (remember the "#") 

[edit]
Video Conferencing

    * ESNet: 8542553
    * EVO:
          o Meeting URL: http://evo.caltech.edu/evoGate/koala.jnlp?meeting=eleBevvlvDatasaeIl
          o Phone Bridge ID: 56083 

[edit]
Slides

Talks can be deposited in the directory /group/halld/www/halldweb1/html/talks/2010-04 on the JLab CUE (you have to be a member of the "halld" Unix group). This directory is accessible from the web at https://halldweb1.jlab.org/talks/2010-04/ .
[edit]
Agenda

   1. Announcements
   2. Collaboration Meeting Agenda: Mark
   3. Review of minutes from the last meeting: all
   4. Information about the new FineMesh B-field option: Simon
   5. Action Item Review: all 

[edit]
Minutes

    * IU: Ryan Mitchell, Matt Shepherd
    * JLab: Craig Bookwalter, Mark Ito (chair), David Lawrence, Sascha Somov, Simon Taylor, Elliott Wolin, Beni Zihlmann 

[edit]
Announcements

   1. Elliott announced that the DANA-to-EVIO conversion module is 99% done. He is waiting on a new release of JANA (0.6.2) to do final tests. Some changes were necessary in EVIO to support the latest features.
          * This raised the issue of getting an official release of EVIO from the Data Acquisition group so that we can have a stable code base. No such official release seems to exist. David will talk to Graham Heyes and try to work out a solution. 
   2. David announced that the mysterious factor of two he has been seeing in the energy loss correction in tracking has been found and fixed (simple typo).
   3. David identified a bug in hit generation in HDGeant in the rare case where a particle ranges out in the gas of a CDC straw. In that case the drift time is essentially indeterminate. He found this when looking at low energy protons. A fix has been implemented in HDGEANT. Protections against this case have not been introduced into the tracking code.
   4. Elliott reported that Dave Heddle has hired a CNU undergraduate to work on the GlueX event display this summer. His name is Andrew.
   5. Elliott mentioned that there will be a workshop on CLAS12 software, May 25 and 26, at the University of Richmond. He and David will be talking.
   6. Mark reminded us that the Collaboration Meeting is approaching and encouraged us to think about talks we might want to give in the offline software session. 

[edit]
Review of Minutes from the Last Meeting

We reviewed the minutes from the April 6 meeting.

Matt reported that new graduate student, Dan Bennett, will be joining the IU group and will start working on the general problem of "extra" cluster generation in the calorimeters.
[edit]
New Fine-Mesh B-field Option

Simon described recent work in trying to speed up the tracking code. The code spends a lot of time in interpolation of the B-field and its derivatives. He tried an approach where the interpolation was done in advance and the results stored as a map with a much smaller grid spacing. Some comments:

    * Matt asked about whether profiling had been tried. He has used "sampler" on Mac with success in the past. Simon has tried gprof on the code, but the results were inconclusive.
    * David tried Simon's approach with the ALT1 fitter and had good results.
    * There are some global makefiles that need to be modified to use this approach generally.
    * Craig referred us to "cachegrind", a KDE gui-based wrapper for gprof. 

[edit]
Action Item Review

We reviewed the action items. There are still some items outstanding that should not be so difficult to complete. We should make an effort to address them.
[edit]
Construction and Wiring Database

Beni wondered out loud about whether we should create a database to track construction and generate wiring maps, in particular for the CDC. David mentioned that he produced a simple application for PrimEx. Mark noted that Matt has done something for the FCAL in this regard and that there is also the PANSOPHY programs used the the RF group at the Lab. Beni will pursue options.
[edit]
New Action Items

   1. Talk to Graham about getting a release of EVIO. -> David 

Retrieved from "http://www.jlab.org/Hall-D/software/wiki/index.php/GlueX_Offline_Meeting%2C_April_20%2C_2010"
Views

    * Article
    * Discussion
    * Edit
    * History

Personal tools

    * Log in / create account

Navigation

    * Main Page
    * Community portal
    * Current events
    * Recent changes
    * Random page
    * Help
    * Donations

Search
 
Toolbox

    * What links here
    * Related changes
    * Upload file
    * Special pages
    * Printable version
    * Permanent link
    * Cite this article

MediaWiki

    * This page was last modified 13:21, 21 April 2010.
    * This page has been accessed 407 times.
    * Privacy policy
    * About GlueXWiki
    * Disclaimers


GlueX Offline Meeting, May 4, 2010
From GlueXWiki
Jump to: navigation, search

GlueX Offline Meeting
Tuesday, May 4, 2010
2:00 pm EDT
JLab: CEBAF Center F326/7
Contents
[hide]

    * 1 Telephone
    * 2 Video Conferencing
    * 3 Slides
    * 4 Agenda
    * 5 Minutes
          o 5.1 Announcements
          o 5.2 Review of Minutes from the Previous Meeting
          o 5.3 Collaboration Meeting Agenda
          o 5.4 Tests of a SIMD version of DVector3
          o 5.5 Action Item Review
          o 5.6 New Action Items

[edit]
Telephone

To connect by telephone:

   1. dial:
          * 800-377-8846 : US
          * 888-276-7715 : Canada
          * 302-709-8424 : International 
   2. enter participant code: 77438230# (remember the "#") 

[edit]
Video Conferencing

    * ESNet: 8542553
    * EVO:
          o Meeting URL: http://evo.caltech.edu/evoGate/koala.jnlp?meeting=eleBevvlvDatasaeIl
          o Phone Bridge ID: 56083 

[edit]
Slides

Talks can be deposited in the directory /group/halld/www/halldweb1/html/talks/2010-05 on the JLab CUE (you have to be a member of the "halld" Unix group). This directory is accessible from the web at https://halldweb1.jlab.org/talks/2010-05/ .
[edit]
Agenda

   1. Announcements
         1. Project Management: Offline Computing Change Request: re-do 
   2. Review of minutes from the last meeting: all
   3. Collaboration Meeting Agenda: Mark
   4. Tests of a SIMD version of DVector3: Simon
   5. Action Item Review: all 

[edit]
Minutes

    * IU: Ryan Mitchell, Matt Shepherd
    * JLab: Craig Bookwalter, Mark Ito (chair), David Lawrence, Simon Taylor, Elliott Wolin, Beni Zihlmann 

[edit]
Announcements

   1. Mark reported that the change request, which was recently submitted to the project, for Offline Computing will have to be redone. The current version references last year's baseline BIA schedule. The request must reference the current revised schedule.
   2. Elliott told us that Yelena Prok from CNU has summer students looking for projects. He would like to get a feeling for our need for students by the end of the week. Please contact him if you have ideas.
          * On a related note, David expressed concern that our plan to assign work to a new collaborator on the calibration database might result in a product incompatible with the current framework. He agreed to write a specification for the system to guide prospective work. Mark agreed to set up a meeting with David and Eugene Chudakov to discuss this issue. 
   3. David has successfully run our reconstruction on MacOS 10.6 (HDGEANT is still problematic on this platform). Changes to support this have been checked in on the trunk.
   4. On a topic possibly related to the offline, Elliott reports that Labview talking on EPICS appears to work.
   5. Beni reported on a new system to edit an existing relational database, using MySQL and PHP.
          * Elliott urged caution using this combination; he has heard reports that it is vulnerable to cyber attack. 

[edit]
Review of Minutes from the Previous Meeting

    * We agreed that Mark should make a new release of sim-recon. 

[edit]
Collaboration Meeting Agenda

Mark walked us through the Offline and Physics section of the agenda for next week's Collaboration meeting. This agenda was developed consultation with Ryan, David, Simon, Elton.
[edit]
Tests of a SIMD version of DVector3

Simon described his recent re-write of the DVector3 class to take advantage of the SSE hardware present on many x86 processors. See his wiki page for details. Speed increases of a factor of two to three were seen for most member functions. The goal is to increase the speed of charged particle tracking.

Items from the discussion:

    * Matt mentioned trying the Intel compiler. It takes advantage of the SSE hardware functionality and does not require custom code.
    * Craig argued against investing too much time in optimizing matrix operations before consulting experts in the field. A lot of research has been done in this area.
    * Mark noted that optimization might be different for different choices of our standard scientific library.
    * Ryan wondered if there was a way to save the results of tracking so that work devoted to that step could be re-used while working on other parts of the reconstruction. Elliott noted that the DANA-to-EVIO package could be modified to save tracking information. Mark pointed out that unfortunately, currently data written in EVIO format cannot be used as input to the reconstruction code without significant development (although Elliott contested the word "significant" in this point). David agreed to modify the data model and the relevant input/output routines for HDDM to accommodate summary information from charged particle tracking. 

[edit]
Action Item Review

We went over the list.

    * Elliott volunteered to install an instance of Mantis for us to try out (after the Collaboration meeting).
    * David reported that the script to run the "b1pi" analysis is done. Mark will incorporate it into a weekly cron job. 

[edit]
New Action Items

    * Write a specification for the calibration database. -> David
    * Arrange a meeting with Eugene to discuss database work. -> Mark
    * Make a new release of sim-recon. -> Mark
    * Write out summary tracking information in HDDM -> David
    * Run b1pi script in a weekly cron job. -> Mark
    * Install Mantis -> Elliott 

Retrieved from "http://www.jlab.org/Hall-D/software/wiki/index.php/GlueX_Offline_Meeting%2C_May_4%2C_2010"
Views

    * Article
    * Discussion
    * Edit
    * History

Personal tools

    * Log in / create account

Navigation

    * Main Page
    * Community portal
    * Current events
    * Recent changes
    * Random page
    * Help
    * Donations

Search
 
Toolbox

    * What links here
    * Related changes
    * Upload file
    * Special pages
    * Printable version
    * Permanent link
    * Cite this article

MediaWiki

    * This page was last modified 21:41, 4 May 2010.
    * This page has been accessed 76 times.
    * Privacy policy
    * About GlueXWiki
    * Disclaimers

